Feat(eos_designs): evpn l2 multicast in network services (#1907)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/eos_designs/doc/network-services.md

    # This setting can be overridden per VRF.
    enable_mlag_ibgp_peering_vrfs: < true | false >

    # EVPN L2 Multicast per SVI | Optional
    # Configures multicast vxlan vlan multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula: < evpn_l2_multicast.vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool > + < vlan_id - 1 >.
    # Recommendation to assign a /20 block within 232.0.0.0/16 Source Specific Multicast range.

>     # Enables `redistribute igmp` on the router bgp MAC VRF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Enable EVPN L2 Multicast for all SVIs and l2vlans within Tenant | Optional
    # Multicast group binding is created only for Mulitcast traffic. BULL traffic will use ingress-replication
    # Configures binding between vxlan vlan and multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula: < evpn_l2_multicast.vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool > + < vlan_id - 1 >.
    # Recommendation to assign a /20 block within 232.0.0.0/16 Source Specific Multicast range.
    # Enables `redistribute igmp` on the router bgp MAC VRF.
    # Enables `ip igmp snooping vlan x` for each SVI/l2vlan x within tenant
```

    evpn_l2_multicast:
      enabled: < true | false >

>       vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool: < IPv4_address/Mask >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool: < IPv4_address/Mask >
```

Reviewer: idea is that for L3 Multicast there could be knob:
`underlay_vrf_multicast_group_ipv4_pool: < IPv4_address/Mask >`

      vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool_offset: < int >

> 

Reviewer: We need IGMP querier too.
For example:
```
    evpn_l2_multicast:
      enabled: < true | false >
      vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool: < IPv4_address/Mask >
      vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool_offset: < int >
      igmp_querier:
         enabled: true
         source_interface: Loopback0
```

Author: this will come in a separate PR.

Reviewer 2: 1. igmp_querier could have a use-case outside of evpn_l2_multicast, so we should not place the querier config underneath evpn_l2_multicast.
2. I suggested a separate PR for querier, but I missed the fact that querier is a requirement for evpn l2 multicast, so I will go back on that and suggest that we enable querier by default if evpn_l2_multicast is enabled for the vlan (or tenant).
3. If this is the only use of igmp_querier for now, we don't have to implement specific querier knobs right now - except maybe for the ip address which we would like to expose.
4. I don't think we should use `source_interface` for finding the IP address for querier. We can default to the IP address of Loopback0, but allow the user to set a specific address. Trying to find the address of any arbitrary interface type would be very error prone.

> 

Reviewer: Enables `ip igmp snooping vlan x` for each SVI/l2vlan x within tenant
 
Enable igmp snooping per VLAN is missing

Author: this will come in a separate PR.

Reviewer 2: igmp snooping itself should be enabled by default on all vlans by EOS. We have a vlan knob for disabling igmp snooping, which we can ignore or warn about if evpn_multicast is enabled.
We also have global knobs for disabling igmp snooping, which we should warn about if evpn_multicast is enabled.

> 

Reviewer: For L2 EVPN Multicast to work we need also:

Multicast routing must be enabled, and software-forwarding set to SFE
```
router multicast
   ipv4
      routing
      software-forwarding sfe
```

Author: I'm not sure about enabling this with this knob, any though on this @emilarista @ClausHolbechArista.
Perhaps we can mention in the description that this is also a requirement along with `underlay_multicast`?

Reviewer 2: So this is a device-wide setting which we should not enable based on a tenant config. So we will need a `evpn_underlay_multicast.enabled: true/false` or similar either as a fabric var or under l3leaf.
My preference would be a fabric variable. Maybe we just include this config in the `underlay_multicast` toggle for now. (I can add a toggle to avoid this if we need to later)

Author: This is being addressed in PR #1922

        route_map_in: < route-map name >
        local_as: < local BGP ASN >

    # Enable EVPN L2 Multicast for all SVIs and l2vlans within Tenant | Optional

>     # - Multicast group binding is created only for Mulitcast traffic. BULL traffic will use ingress-replication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # - Multicast group binding is created only for Multicast traffic. BULL traffic will use ingress-replication
```

>     # - Configures binding between vxlan vlan and multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # - Configures binding between VXLAN, VLAN, and multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula:
```

    #   < evpn_l2_multicast.underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool > + < vlan_id - 1 > + < evpn_l2_multicast.underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool_offset >.

>     # - Recommendation is to assign a /20 block within 232.0.0.0/8 Source Specific Multicast range.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # - The recommendation is to assign a /20 block within the 232.0.0.0/8 Source-Specific Multicast range.
```

>     # When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

>     # - When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # - When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

>     # - When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # - When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Reviewer 4: Missing double quote

>     # - When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # - When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is true for a VLAN or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

    evpn_l2_multicast:
      enabled: < true | false >
      underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool: < IPv4_address/Mask >
      underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool_offset: < int >

    # Enable igmp snooping querier for each SVI/l2vlan within tenant, by default using IP address of Loopback 0.

>     # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be configured on l3 devices, i.e. uplink_type: p2p.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be configured on l3 devices, i.e., uplink_type: p2p.
```

        route_map_in: < route-map name >
        local_as: < local BGP ASN >

    # Enable EVPN L2 Multicast for all SVIs and l2vlans within Tenant | Optional

>     # Multicast group binding is created only for Mulitcast traffic. BULL traffic will use ingress-replication

Reviewer 2: It is not clear that each line is listing a certain behavior. I suggest to add a `-` in front of each line listing behavior

>     # Configures binding between vxlan vlan and multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula: < evpn_l2_multicast.vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool > + < vlan_id - 1 >.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # Configures binding between vxlan vlan and multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula: < evpn_l2_multicast.underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool > + < vlan_id - 1 > + < evpn_l2_multicast.underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool_offset >.
```

Author: fixed thank you!

>     # Recommendation is to assign a /20 block within 232.0.0.0/16 Source Specific Multicast range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Recommendation is to assign a /20 block within 232.0.0.0/8 Source Specific Multicast range.
```

    # Enables `redistribute igmp` on the router bgp MAC VRF.

>     # When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble it set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # When evpn_l2_multicast.enable is set True for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Author: fixed thank you!

    # By default igmp snooping querier IP address is set to Loopback 0.
    evpn_l2_multicast:
      enabled: < true | false >
      underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool: < IPv4_address/Mask >
      underlay_l2_multicast_group_ipv4_pool_offset: < int >

    # Enable igmp snooping querier for each SVI/l2vlan within tenant, by default using IP address of Loopback 0.
    # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be created on l3 device, i.e. uplink_type: p2p.
    igmp_snooping_querier:
      # Will be enabled automatically if "evpn_l2_multicast" is enabled.

>        enabled: < true | false >

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
       enabled: < true | false | default < evpn_l2_multicast.enabled > >
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think this makes it clearer.

        route_map_out: < route-map name >
        route_map_in: < route-map name >
        local_as: < local BGP ASN >
    # Enable EVPN L2 Multicast for all SVIs and l2vlans within Tenant | Optional
    # Multicast group binding is created only for Mulitcast traffic. BULL traffic will use ingress-replication
    # Configures binding between vxlan vlan and multicast group ipv4 address using the following formula: < evpn_l2_multicast.vxlan_multicast_group_ipv4_pool > + < vlan_id - 1 >.
    # Recommendation to assign a /20 block within 232.0.0.0/16 Source Specific Multicast range.
    # Enables `redistribute igmp` on the router bgp MAC VRF.

>     # Enables `ip igmp snooping vlan x` for each SVI/l2vlan x within tenant

Reviewer: double-check this statement since igmp_snooping is enabled by default

            # Requires "enable_trunk_groups: true"
            trunk_groups: [ < trunk_group_1 >, < trunk_group_2 > ]

            # Explicitly enable or disable evpn_l2_multicast to overide setting of tenants.<tenant>.evpn_l2_multicast.enabled.

>             # When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble it set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            # When evpn_l2_multicast.enable is set True for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Reviewer 2: `to true` is clearer IMO

            # Requires "enable_trunk_groups: true"
            trunk_groups: [ < trunk_group_1 >, < trunk_group_2 > ]

>             # Explicitly enable or disable evpn_l2_multicast to overide setting of tenants.<tenant>.evpn_l2_multicast.enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            # Explicitly enable or disable evpn_l2_multicast to override setting of tenants.<tenant>.evpn_l2_multicast.enabled.
```

>             # When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

>             # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

            evpn_l2_multicast:
              enabled: < true | false >

            # Enable IGMP Snooping
            igmp_snooping_enabled: < true | false | default true (EOS) >

            # Enable igmp snooping querier, by default using IP address of Loopback 0.

>             # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be configured on l3 devices, i.e. uplink_type: p2p.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be configured on l3 devices, i.e., uplink_type: p2p.
```

        # Extend this L2VLAN over VXLAN
        vxlan: < true | false | default -> true >

        # Explicitly enable or disable evpn_l2_multicast to overide setting of tenants.<tenant>.evpn_l2_multicast.enabled.

>         # When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble it set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # When evpn_l2_multicast.enable is set True for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

        # Extend this L2VLAN over VXLAN
        vxlan: < true | false | default -> true >

>         # Explicitly enable or disable evpn_l2_multicast to overide setting of tenants.<tenant>.evpn_l2_multicast.enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        # Explicitly enable or disable evpn_l2_multicast to override setting of tenants.<tenant>.evpn_l2_multicast.enabled.
```

>         # When evpn_l2_multicast.enanble is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed.

>         # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        # When evpn_l2_multicast.enabled is set to true for a vlan or a tenant, "igmp snooping" and "igmp snooping querier" will always be enabled - overriding those individual settings.
```

        evpn_l2_multicast:
          enabled: < true | false >

        # Activate or deactivate IGMP snooping | Optional, default is true
        igmp_snooping_enabled: < true | false | default true (EOS) >

        # Enable igmp snooping querier, by default using IP address of Loopback 0.

>         # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be configured on l3 devices, i.e. uplink_type: p2p.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        # When enabled, igmp snooping querier will only be configured on l3 devices, i.e., uplink_type: p2p.
```
